---
title: Events
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Events
There are two types of events:

1. Events sent from the printer.
2. Events generated by PandaLED.

When you are creating a mapping, you can select using the dropdown to what event you want to react.
This allows you to decide for which event you want a mapping and for which you don't want a reaction.
Furthermore this gives you the possibility to create multiple mappings for a single event which performs different things,
e.g. you can control the WLED for the 'Print finished' event but also create a second mapping to control a GPIO pin for the same event.


## Event Types

<table>
    <tr>
        <th>Event Name</th>
        <th>Origin</th>
        <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Oboard Switch pressed</td>
        <td>PandaLED</td>
        <td>Switch located on the board was pressed.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Printer Idle</td>
        <td>P1/X1 Printer</td>
        <td>Printer just started.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Printer Standby</td>
        <td>P1/X1 Printer</td>
        <td>Printer finished doing something and is in standby.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Preheating Bed</td>
        <td>P1/X1 Printer</td>
        <td>Printer is currently heating bed before print.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Cleaning Nozzle</td>
        <td>P1/X1 Printer</td>
        <td>Nozzle is cleaning before starting print.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Bed leveling</td>
        <td>P1/X1 Printer</td>
        <td>Print is leveling bed.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Calibrating Extrusion</td>
        <td>X1 Printer</td>
        <td>Printer is calibrating extrusion using its LiDAR sensor. Its recommended to turn any light off during this event.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Printing</td>
        <td>P1/X1 Printer</td>
        <td>Printer is currently printing.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Print Finished</td>
        <td>P1/X1 Printer</td>
        <td>Print finished successfully</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Print Failed</td>
        <td>P1/X1 Printer</td>
        <td>Print failed. No specific cause is defined, it's a general failure. If you need specific causes, you need to modify the firmware.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Door opened while idle</td>
        <td>X1 Printer</td>
        <td>Door opened while printer is doing nothing. Could be used to turn lights on if they where off.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Door closed while idle</td>
        <td>X1 Printer</td>
        <td>Door closed while printer is idle. Could be used to turn lights back off to save energy.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Door opened while printing</td>
        <td>X1 Printer</td>
        <td>Door opened while print is in progress.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Door closed while printing</td>
        <td>X1 Printer</td>
        <td>Door closed while print is in progress.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Door opened while print finished</td>
        <td>X1 Printer</td>
        <td>Door opened after the print finished. Usually used to turn the lights white for additional lighting.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Door closed while print finished</td>
        <td>X1 Printer</td>
        <td>Door was closed after the print finished. Usually used to turn all lights off.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Chamber Light turned on</td>
        <td>P1/X1 Printer</td>
        <td>Chamber light was turned on.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Chamber Light turned off</td>
        <td>P1/X1 Printer</td>
        <td>Chamber light was turned off.</td>
    </tr>
</table>